Improve static types migration docs (#6544)
nextflow-io/nextflow: docs/tutorials/static-types.md

Apply the same migration principles from the previous processes to migrate `INDEX`.

## Preparing for static types

While static types can be adopted progressively with existing code, some coding patterns cannot be statically typed and will prevent the type checker from validating your entire pipeline.

This section provides best practices for writing Nextflow code that works well with static types.

<h3>Use the strict syntax</h3>

> The {ref}`strict syntax <strict-syntax-page>` remains optional in Nextflow 25.10, but it is required in order to use type annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {ref}`strict syntax <strict-syntax-page>` remains optional in Nextflow 25.10. However, it is required to use type annotations.
```
Suggestion only

> Before you migrate to static types, make sure your code adheres to the strict syntax using `nextflow lint` or the language server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you migrate to static types, ensure your code adheres to the strict syntax using `nextflow lint` or the language server.
```

<h3>Avoid deprecated patterns</h3>

When preparing for the strict syntax, try to address deprecation warnings in addition to errors. For example:

```nextflow
Channel.from(1, 2, 3).map { it * 2 }    // deprecated
channel.of(1, 2, 3).map { v -> v * 2 }  // best practice
```

The above example shows how to avoid three deprecated patterns:

1. Using `Channel` to access channel factories (use `channel` instead)
2. Using the deprecated `channel.from` factory (use `channel.of` or `channel.fromList` instead)
3. Using the implicit `it` closure parameter (declare the parameter explicitly instead) 

<h3>Avoid <code>each</code> input qualifier</h3>

> The {ref}`each <process-input-each>` input qualifier is not supported by typed processes. Isntead, use the {ref}`operator-combine` operator to create a combined input channel for the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {ref}`each <process-input-each>` input qualifier is not supported by typed processes. Use the {ref}`operator-combine` operator to create a combined input channel for the process instead.
```

> For example, given the following script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```nextflow
process align {
    input:
    path seq
    each mode

    script:
    """
    t_coffee -in $seq -mode $mode > result
    """
}

workflow {
    sequences = channel.fromPath('*.fa')
    methods = ['regular', 'espresso', 'psicoffee']

    align(sequences, methods)
}
```

> Rewrite the script to use the `combine` operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rewrite the script to use the `combine` operator. It becomes:
```

```nextflow
process align {
    input:
    tuple path(seq), val(mode)

    script:
    """
    t_coffee -in $seq -mode $mode > result
    """
}

workflow {
    sequences = channel.fromPath('*.fa')
    methods = ['regular', 'espresso', 'psicoffee']

    align(sequences.combine(methods))
}
```

:::{tip}
While `each` is a useful shorthand for combining multiple inputs to a process, it was introduced at a time when the process definition was tightly coupled with workflow logic. Since the introduction of DSL2, the direction of the language has been to treat processes as standalone modules that are decoupled from workflow logic, which discourages the use of features such as `each`.
:::

<h3>Aviod functions with ambiguous return types</h3>

> Some {ref}`standard library <stdlib-types>` functions and {ref}`operators <operator-page>` have ambiguous return types. While they can still be used with static types, the type checker will not be able to validate your code as effectively if you use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some {ref}`standard library <stdlib-types>` functions and {ref}`operators <operator-page>` have ambiguous return types. While they can still be used with static types, the type checker will not be able to validate your code as effectively.
```

You can tell whether a function has an ambiguous return type by inspecting the function signature. If the return type is `?` or has a `?` type argument, it is ambiguous.

For example, the `flatten` operator has the following signature:

```nextflow
def flatten() -> Channel<?>
```

> Try to use an alternative that has a well-defined return type. In the case of `flatten`, use `flatMap` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use alternatives that have well-defined return types. For example, use `flatMap` instead of `flatten`.
```

:::{tip}
The commonly-used operators listed under {ref}`dataflow-type-channel` have well-defined return types and are recommended for use with static types.
:::

When there is no way to replace an ambiguously-typed function, you can instead perform a *hard cast* to coerce the type, if you know what it will be at runtime.

For example:

```nextflow
channel.fromPath('samplesheet.csv')
    .splitCsv()
    .view()
```

The `splitCsv` operator has an ambigious return type (`Channel<?>`). This is because it can emit lists or maps depending on whether the `header` option is set.

> To address this issue, we will make two changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this issue:
```
